
---
## My Research Interest

I always believe that the integration of robotics and AI is the trend for the two related frontier field. That's my motivation to explore the concept of embodied AI. 

Nowaday, the population aging is becoming a worldwide problem, leading to social issues like labour shortage and high demand for elderly caring service. My long-term goal is to develop multi-task robots that are capable of doing all kinds of houseworks and providing emotional support for the family members, especially elderly people.

To achieve the aforementioned goal, the designed robot should have the following functions or structures:

1. **Vision Semantic Understanding**: the ability to see and understand the surrounding objects
2. **Tactile Sensing**: the ability to feel the pressure and friction on the contact surface
3. **Smooth Locomotion**: the ability to perform smooth gaits and graping actions
4. **Soft Structure**: at least the part where the robot makes contact with human should be soft

The following study attempts to improve the robots' understanding of surrounding objects in both vision and tactility.

---
## Title

> **Vision-Tactile Multimodal Perception for 3D Material-Aware Reconstruction**

---
## Introduction

The study aims to test the feasibility of reconstructing a 3D scene or object and identifying the material of every surface in it using a vision-tactile perception method. A prototype humanoid robot system is built to operate the experiment. 

1. **Geometry Reconstruction** - the robot explores the testing scene and rebuilds the 3D geometry of all the surfaces and objects using the image data captured by the camera. 

2. **Texture Segmentation** - 3D regions of the scene are classified by their texture based on image segmentation to reduce the tactile sensing complexity.

3. **Tactile Sensing** - the robot trys to reach for the surfaces and objects in the scene and uses the tactile sensors on its dexterous hand to perceive the friction and pressure of the object. 

4. **Material Identification** - the material of an object is identified based on the measured friction, roughness and visual texture data together.

---
## Background

3D reconstruction technology is a subfield of computer vision and computer graphic. It aims to rebuild a model of real life objects from sensor data, mostly images from vision sensors. It's an efficient approach for robot mapping and understanding of the environment. However, most 3D reconstruction techniques or algorithms only focuses on the geometry but not the material of the objects. {[1](#^0a22d7)} provides a detailed survey on vision-based 3D reconstruction methods. Within all the listed methods, only the CT scanning is capable of recognizing the object material.

Some researchers are already bridging the gap between 3D reconstruction and material identification. The paper {[2](#^008787)} developed a method for material recognition based on image segmentation. However, it can not handle reflective or painted surfaces such as mirror or colorful plastic.

To further improve the performance of material identification in 3D reconstruction, my study combines the vision and tactility to optimize the decision accuracy.

---
## Questions

> **Can tactile sensing reliably classify material types in a reconstructed environment?**

> **What are the advantages of incorporating tactile sensing in addition to vision for scene understanding?**

> **What types of tactile sensors (e.g., capacitive, magnetic, optical) yield the most discriminative signals for material classification?**

> **How does the robot's exploration policy (e.g., where and how to touch) influence the quality of material inference?**

> **Which fusion strategies (e.g., feature-level, decision-level) are most effective for combining visual and tactile data?**

---
## Targets

The system is expected to reach the following goals:

+ A material identification accurate of 85%
+ A Chamfer distance of 3D reconstruction less than 0.2m

---
## Challenges

There exists several possible challenges 

> **Tactile Sensor Sensativity Limitation**

The sensor of 


---
## Methodology

Firstly, it's important to choose a method for 3D reconstruction. 


For tactile-vision based material recognition, 



1. Data Preparation


2. Simulation

3. Real World Experiment

4. 


---
## Reference

1. [Computer Vision Based 3D Reconstruction A Review](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/336887797_Computer_Vision_Based_3D_Reconstruction_A_Review) ^0a22d7
2. [SAMa: Material-aware 3D selection and segmentation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.19322) ^008787


+ [Perception for Humanoid Robots](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15616)
+ [HumanoidPano: Hybrid Spherical Panoramic-LiDAR Cross-Modal Perception for Humanoid Robots](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.09010)
+ [A Vision-Based Tactile Sensing System for Multimodal Contact Information Perception via Neural Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.01986)
+ [Towards Comprehensive Multimodal Perception: Introducing the Touch-Language-Vision Dataset](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.09813)
+ [Multimodal Perception for Dexterous Manipulation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.14298)
+ [ExFMan: Rendering 3D Dynamic Humans with Hybrid Monocular Blurry Frames and Events](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.10444?)

+ 

+ [Tactile sensors: A review](https://www-sciencedirect-com.remotexs.ntu.edu.sg/science/article/pii/S026322412401217X)
+ [Design of a Biomimetic Tactile Sensor for Material Classification](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.15941)
+ [VoxelCache: Accelerating Online Mapping in Robotics and 3D Reconstruction Tasks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.08729)

